ORIE 4741 - ak633 and hl565

# Evaluating Peer-to-Peer Loans from the Lending Club

For the first dataset, the goal is to be able to classify loan applications into ones that should be accepted because they are likely to pay back on time, and ones that should be rejected because they will be paid back late or never. This is easily motivated by companies that are giving out loans. Knowing which loans are going to be paid back at all has a strong correlation with the business success of the company. Additionally, knowing which loans will be paid back in a timely manner is important because that might affect the temporal cashflow of the business. For example, if enough people are paying back loans late or not paying them back at all, the company might not have sufficient funds to give out new loans. Extended periods of time where this happens can lead to the lending company going under. We found that Lending Club had extensive records on loans that its participants had engaged in [(Lending Club data)](https://www.lendingclub.com/info/download-data.action). This actually further motivates this data analysis project, since the Lending Club is a peer-to-peer lending company. The investors on the platform likely are hobby investors rather than professional investors, so they don’t have huge amounts of capital to compensate for losses. (Actually, I’m not quite sure if the Lending Club foots the bill when debtors default on the loan, or if it is the investor, but either way, one of the parties is unhappy when a loan is defaulted). According to some research, the Lending Club is very conservative in determining who it allows on their platform to ask for loans. This conservative tendency is good in that it makes sure they don’t lose tremendous amounts of money, but it also means they need humans reading every application and it means that they are limiting the potential growth of the popularity of the platform. Using a classifier instead would preclude the need for the Lending Club to hire labor to check every single loan application, and would mean they could get through far more applications, and give more people opportunities to get loans. The Lending Club gathers lots of information from every loan request, so there are several potential features to work with, including the time-period of the loan (36 or 60 month), the loan amount, interest rate, whether the requestor owns/rents a home, the purpose for the loan (home improvement, credit card refinancing, medical expenses, etc.), the requestor’s annual income,whether that income is verified, and much more. They have a list of accepted loan applications (the vast majority of which were paid back on time) and denied loan applications. Having these two data sets separated gives us a labeled training set to work with to inform the model’s decisions based on their associated features.
